Create  External Source Repository.md (#2216)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/studio/nuxeo-online-services-portal/External Source Repository.md

---
title:  External Source Repository
description: Nuxeo Studio Integration with External Git Repositories
review:
    comment: ''
    date: ''
    status: ok
toc: true
tree_item_index: 400
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing your Studio project sources on your own is now possible with the External Source Repository feature. It allows more flexibility on your project sources lifecyle:
* Pull requests
* History edition / Force push
* Custom hooks and validation workflows
* etc...

{{#> callout type='info'}}
External Source Repository configuration requires specific permissions, please contact Support to be granted.
{{/callout}}

{{#> callout type='warn'}}
Managing your project sources makes you responsible for it. Nuxeo/Hyland will not be responsible anymore for backups or any data loss
{{/callout}}
```

# Nuxeo Studio Integration with External Git Repositories

Nuxeo Studio, a powerful customization tool for the Nuxeo Platform, has recently introduced a groundbreaking feature enabling seamless integration with external Git repositories. This enhancement allows organizations to leverage the collaborative power of Git while managing their Nuxeo Studio configurations, thus streamlining the development and deployment processes.

## Integration Guide: Linking Nuxeo Studio Project to External Git Repository

*NOTE:-For External Git access, you need to contact support.*

> 

Reviewer: you can remove this

### Step 1: Navigate to Settings to enable Git external repository

1. Within your Studio project, navigate to the top-right corner and locate the "Settings" button.

 ![]({{file name='settings.png'}} ?w=650,border=true)

> 
> 2. From the connect dashboard, locate your desired Studio project and click on it to enter.
> 3. Once selected, click on the "Edit" button to enter the editing mode for your chosen studio project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OR
1. From the Connect dashboard "My Studio Projects" page, locate your Studio project and click on the "Edit" button.
```

### Step 2: Configuring Git Credentials

> 1. After entering edit mode, navigate to the "source repo" tab within your sandbox configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On your project settings page, navigate to the "source repo" tab.
```

   ![]({{file name='sourcerepo.png'}} ?w=650,border=true)
 

> 3. Here, you'll find options to configure Git credentials for authentication with the external repository.
> 4. Enable the toggle button within the source Repo section and entering your Git credentials and then save it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Fill the form with your external Git repository URL and the associated credentials.

{{#> callout type='warn'}}
Requirements for the external Git repository are the followings:
* It has a "master" branch
* It is empty or has the required folder structure: this structure can change along with Studio versions so it's recommended to start with an empty repository or with a recent copy of an existing Studio project sources.
*PRO TIP:* A Studio project sources can be copied either by direct Git access (https://doc.nuxeo.com/studio/how-to-work-with-git-and-studio-project/) or within the .metadata folder of Studio project zip package
{{/callout}}

4. Enable the "External Source Repository" toggle button and click "Save".
```

Once the enablement process is complete, your Studio project is now linked to the specified external Git repository associated with your studio project.

 ![]({{file name='linkedrepo.png'}} ?w=650,border=true)

---

> ### Use of Wip branch for external git 
> The WIP branch is typically used when you're actively developing a feature or making changes to the codebase that aren't ready to be merged into the main codebase yet. It provides a sandbox environment where you can make changes, test them, and collaborate with other team members without impacting the stability of the main branch (often called "master" or "main").
> 
> Using a WIP branch allows you to keep the main branch clean and stable while still giving you the flexibility to iterate on your changes without disrupting the workflow of others on your team. Once the feature or changes are complete and tested, they can be merged back into the main branch through a process called "merge" or "pull request," depending on the version control system you're using.
> 
> NOTE:-Your created WIP branch name should be wipm/{{your USERNAME}}
> 
> 
> ### Overview
> By automating the process of merging changes from Nuxeo Studio's simple mode directly into the master branch of the linked Git repository, users can streamline their workflow and ensure efficient version control management while maintaining flexibility and ease of use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The WIP branch concept
While editing your project using the Studio UI, you will notice the creation of branches with the following pattern:

wip/{{USERNAME}}_{{USERHASH}}/{{FEATURE_BRANCH}}

These branches are used as workspaces for each user working on a specific feature branch and are not meant to be edited "manually" unless you know what you are doing, otherwise the corresponding user may not be able to load the UI.
Nevertheless, playing with these branches can sometimes be useful and allows you to control what is effectively loaded when doing hotreloads for example !

## Commit preferences
The recommended Commit preferences when External Source Repository is configured is "Advanced" or "Intermediate", the "Simple" mode will have degraded performances when hitting the "Save" button has the automatic pull/merge will be triggered every time.
```

## Integration Guide: Linking Nuxeo Studio Project to External Git Repository

*NOTE:-For External Git access, you need to contact support.*

### Step 1: Navigate to Settings to enable Git external repository

1. Within your Studio project, navigate to the top-right corner and locate the "Settings" button.

 ![]({{file name='settings.png'}} ?w=650,border=true)

OR
1. From the Connect dashboard "My Studio Projects" page, locate your Studio project and click on the "Edit" button.

### Step 2: Configuring Git Credentials

1. On your project settings page, navigate to the "source repo" tab.

   ![]({{file name='sourcerepo.png'}} ?w=650,border=true)
 
2. Fill the form with your external Git repository URL and the associated credentials.

{{#> callout type='warn'}}
Requirements for the external Git repository are the followings:
* It has a "master" branch

> * It is empty or has the required folder structure: this structure can change along with Studio versions so it's recommended to start with an empty repository or with a recent copy of an existing Studio project sources.
> *PRO TIP:* A Studio project sources can be copied either by direct Git access (https://doc.nuxeo.com/studio/how-to-work-with-git-and-studio-project/) or within the .metadata folder of Studio project zip package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is empty or has the required folder structure: this structure can change along with Studio versions so it's recommended to start with an empty repository or with a recent copy of an existing Studio project sources.

*PRO TIP:* A Studio project sources can be copied either by direct Git access (https://doc.nuxeo.com/studio/how-to-work-with-git-and-studio-project/) or within the .metadata folder of Studio project zip package
```

{{/callout}}

4. Enable the "External Source Repository" toggle button and click "Save".

Once the enablement process is complete, your Studio project is now linked to the specified external Git repository associated with your studio project.

 ![]({{file name='linkedrepo.png'}} ?w=650,border=true)

---
## The WIP branch concept

> While editing your project using the Studio UI, you will notice the creation of branches with the following pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While editing your project using the Studio UI, you will notice the creation of branches with the following pattern in your external Git repository:
```
